OK this bit of the course is the part I don't do well in.

In the video I found myself wandering off thinking of other things like the form of animation and stuff, this is just real hard for me to pay attention to. I did take note of the science bit at the start before it hit hypothesis and speculation. My opinion about this however, is that you can't have an empathetic society, short of cloning the dalai lama and replacing us all with him. and I'm not just being cynical here. you have people who are empathetic to an animals plight and all that but they will throw other humans under the bus for that view. take the case of the guy that shot the lion recently and people were outraged and set about ruining the guy's life or maybe people that throw paint over people in fur and stuff like that. or maybe you get people who care about the environment and they will chain themselves to bulldozers in the amazon to stop logging but don't care the guys cutting down trees are just trying to make a living. my whole point is that I don't think that just about anyone can really be all that empathetic. like sure you can have empathy but at some point people say "oh i just don't care". this may be about saving the whales or puppies or starving people or something, hell most people who walk down the street don't give money to the guys begging because they just don't care enough. I think sure we may be wired genetically for empathy but there is a lot more than that going on in a human head and a lot of that stuff has more impact on the way people function. also there are limits to empathy, say someone says to you they are sick and are going to die, sure you feel bad you don't fully empathize with them you simply can't. oh sure your brain tries to but if you haven't walked in their shoes, you cannot really empathize with someone. how does a rich man know the feeling of being hungry, destitute and all that without being poor himself. how can a person feel whatever it is a drug riddled mess in prison feels without being in their shoes? You can take someone with the most empathy but I do not think you will find they are capable of empathy in all cases. hell some people would feel empathy towards a starfish that has no brain or thinking or feeling, hell I actually went to a school (rudolph steiner) where some of the teachers were convinced that plants had feelings and could feel pain and stuff. now that is an example of what i am coining as "false empathy".

I think that video really just annoyed me. like i get empathy, I pat my cat, it purrs, im happy now because cat is happy. or maybe my mates having a bad time and i feel bad for them and that makes me feel a bit bad.

I don't know basically i think most people are capable of only so much empathy and i think the most important thing with empathy is directing it where it counts less we find ourselves hanging people that own chainsaws and hugging trees. like maybe instead of trying to be super empathetic, maybe be smartly empathetic. like use it for what is important. or maybe people who share empathy with trees can't help themselves same with people who simply cannot empathize with the destitute.

Man this stuff makes a cynic out of me. I swear it is all the army training, like years of training to kill "the bad guys" who are these days just brainwashed impoverished guys (often kids) who don't know better. that cannot be healthy for the mind. but then every day you have great empathy for your brothers (co-workers in the army know each other as brothers). maybe the great extreme contrast there does something to you i don't know. I have seen someone pick up baby birds to put in a nest and then that same person put a smoke grenade in a wasp nest. maybe we are all like that? they say the brain doesn't stop developing till some time after 20 and most of us joined up at 18... like surely empathy has to be one of those cognitive functions to do with behavior and social interaction that develops fully last?

I'm going to stop there with empathy as I know someone has to read all of this along with all the other student material and that would be a big task. I empathize with them ;)


as for the posture thing: fully believe it or at least it comes as no surprise. bad posture is bad end of story. no person in history ever gave a rousing speech in the slumped position staring at their toes. a race car driver does not slump in his seat as he drives. I am sitting here in an exaggerated strait position and I feel different. Its just like how you breath can have an adverse effect on your psychological health. those who breath from the chest and not from the diaphragm will be more stressed than others. normally a human breaths from the chest when he or she is needing more oxygen for exercise or when in  stressful situation like when in danger. if you automatically breath from the chest for whatever reason your body is doing what it should in a stressful situation and this will cause stress in itself. thats why people in a stressful situation are told to take deep breaths from the belly. this goes back to posture. if you adopt a posture that is a response to a mental thing like low self esteem, then eventually you will act with low self esteem, you slouch to make yourself feel small when shamed or whatever, if you always slouch you start to feel small and your self esteem will shrink. Thats my sort of reasoning for it all. it's all casue and effect but you can have it go the other way too, someone with low self esteem may slouch but a person who just slouches for whatever reason may develop low self esteem because of the slouch. like sometimes the effect can form the cause too.
In short yeah I think it makes sense right. Don't slouch, i do, probably will continue to do, if i catch myself will stop doing, nice to know and all that, probably should get a new chair.
also the posture article was really small text, bad web design right ;)
