To start with I found the statement "The most relevant senses in this context are sight, hearing, and touch" to be somewhat surprising as I don't really think of touch as being a major sense but it probably is.

I have actually done some web content migration for the MOH. When doing this, we would take the content on the old site and move it to the new site. during this process, we had to make sure all of the words in Maori were tagged specially for web reading devices for the blind and we would make sure all images were tagged so they too could be interpreted by web readers. All of this accessibility for the blind is something that I am well aware of. The material regarding accessibility for the deaf was something I wasn't so well aware of and the braille stuff I thought was quite amazing.

This whole thing made me think that there must be a hell of a lot of additional work for a web developer when making even the most basic website. One would have to ensure all images have appropriate alt tags and special words must be marked for web reading devices and then there is all the stuff for those whole are colorblind and deaf and even those who rely on braille. It really is a big job making sure everyone has a fair shot at accessing the web and all of it's content.

Another thing I noticed was that there are some very small steps needed to be taken and they could easily be overlooked. I mean you have to make sure the content is valid without any reliance on visual or audio material where possible. It all seems a little daunting really but I'm sure it will become second nature eventually.
